Active Directory Explained
Active Directory (AD) is a directory service for Windows enterprise environments that was officially implemented in 2000 with the release of Windows Server 2000 and has been incrementally improved upon with the release of each subsequent server OS since. AD is based on the protocols x.500 and LDAP that came before it and still utilizes these protocols in some form today. It is a distributed, hierarchical structure that allows for centralized management of an organization’s resources, including users, computers, groups, network devices and file shares, group policies, devices, and trusts. AD provides authentication, accounting, and authorization functions within a Windows enterprise environment. If this is your first time learning about Active Directory or hearing these terms, check out the Intro To Active Directory module for a more in-depth look at the structure and function of AD, AD objects, etc.

Why Should We Care About AD?
At the time of writing this module, Microsoft Active Directory holds around 43% of the market share for enterprise organizations utilizing Identity and Access management solutions. This is a huge portion of the market, and it isn't likely to go anywhere any time soon since Microsoft is improving and blending implementations with Azure AD. Another interesting stat to consider is that just in the last two years, Microsoft has had over 2000 reported vulnerabilities tied to a CVE. AD's many services and main purpose of making information easy to find and access make it a bit of a behemoth to manage and correctly harden. This exposes enterprises to vulnerabilities and exploitation from simple misconfigurations of services and permissions. Tie these misconfigurations and ease of access with common user and OS vulnerabilities, and you have a perfect storm for an attacker to take advantage of. With all of this in mind, this module will explore some of these common issues and show us how to identify, enumerate, and take advantage of their existence. We will practice enumerating AD utilizing native tools and languages such as Sysinternals, WMI, DNS, and many others. Some attacks we will also practice include Password spraying, Kerberoasting, utilizing tools such as Responder, Kerbrute, Bloodhound, and much more.

We may often find ourselves in a network with no clear path to a foothold through a remote exploit such as a vulnerable application or service. Yet, we are within an Active Directory environment, which can lead to a foothold in many ways. The general goal of gaining a foothold in a client's AD environment is to escalate privileges by moving laterally or vertically throughout the network until we accomplish the intent of the assessment. The goal can vary from client to client. It may be accessing a specific host, user's email inbox, database, or just complete domain compromise and looking for every possible path to Domain Admin level access within the testing period. Many open-source tools are available to facilitate enumerating and attacking Active Directory. To be most effective, we must understand how to perform as much of this enumeration manually as possible. More importantly, we need to understand the "why" behind certain flaws and misconfigurations. This will make us more effective as attackers and equip us to give sound recommendations to our clients on the major issues within their environment, as well as clear and actionable remediation advice.

We need to be comfortable enumerating and attacking AD from both Windows and Linux, with a limited toolset or built-in Windows tools, also known as "living off the land." It is common to run into situations where our tools fail, are being blocked, or we are conducting an assessment where the client has us work from a managed workstation or VDI instance instead of the customized Linux or Windows attack host we may have grown accustomed to. To be effective in all situations, we must be able to adapt quickly on the fly, understand the many nuances of AD and know how to access them even when severely limited in our options.
