Below are some of the key data points that we should be looking for at this time and noting down into our notetaking tool of choice and saving scan/tool output to files whenever possible.

Data Point	                                      Description

AD Users	                                        We are trying to enumerate valid user accounts we can target for password spraying.

AD Joined Computers	                              Key Computers include Domain Controllers, file servers, SQL servers, web servers, Exchange mail servers, database servers, etc.

Key Services	                                    Kerberos, NetBIOS, LDAP, DNS

Vulnerable Hosts and Services	                    Anything that can be a quick win. ( a.k.a an easy host to exploit and gain a foothold)


TTPs
Enumerating an AD environment can be overwhelming if just approached without a plan. There is an abundance of data stored in AD, and it can take a long time to sift if not looked at in progressive stages, and we will likely miss things.

We need to set a game plan for ourselves and tackle it piece by piece. Everyone works in slightly different ways, so as we gain more experience, we'll start to develop our own repeatable methodology that works best for us. 

Regardless of how we proceed, we typically start in the same place and look for the same data points. We will experiment with many tools in this section and subsequent ones. It is important to reproduce every example and even try to recreate examples with different tools to see how they work differently, learn their syntax, and find what approach works best for us.

We will start with passive identification of any hosts in the network, followed by active validation of the results to find out more about each host (what services are running, names, potential vulnerabilities, etc.). 

Once we know what hosts exist, we can proceed with probing those hosts, looking for any interesting data we can glean from them. 

After we have accomplished these tasks, we should stop and regroup and look at what info we have. At this time, we'll hopefully have a set of credentials or a user account to target for a foothold onto a domain-joined host or have the ability to begin credentialed enumeration from our Linux attack host.

Let's look at a few tools and techniques to help us with this enumeration.


Identifying Hosts

First, let's take some time to listen to the network and see what's going on. We can use Wireshark and TCPDump to "put our ear to the wire" and see what hosts and types of network traffic we can capture. This is particularly helpful if the assessment approach is "black box." 

We notice some ARP requests and replies, MDNS, and other basic layer two packets (since we are on a switched network, we are limited to the current broadcast domain) some of which we can see below. This is a great start that gives us a few bits of information about the customer's network setup.

we have run through the examples and syntax in all prior examples this time through its more about focusing on the content and really being detail focused. 



Tools used: 
Wireshark
Responder
fping
nmap 

Identifying Users
If our client does not provide us with a user to start testing with (which is often the case), we will need to find a way to establish a foothold in the domain by either obtaining clear text credentials or an NTLM password hash for a user, a SYSTEM shell on a domain-joined host, or a shell in the context of a domain user account. 

Obtaining a valid user with credentials is critical in the early stages of an internal penetration test. This access (even at the lowest level) opens up many opportunities to perform enumeration and even attacks. Let's look at one way we can start gathering a list of valid users in a domain to use later in our assessment.

*!*!* THIS WILL BE KEY FOR US !*!*!* Kerbrute - Internal AD Username Enumeration

Kerbrute can be a stealthier option for domain account enumeration. It takes advantage of the fact that Kerberos pre-authentication failures often will not trigger logs or alerts. We will use Kerbrute in conjunction with the jsmith.txt or jsmith2.txt user lists from Insidetrust. 

This repository contains many different user lists that can be extremely useful when attempting to enumerate users when starting from an unauthenticated perspective. We can point Kerbrute at the DC we found earlier and feed it a wordlist. The tool is quick, and we will be provided with results letting us know if the accounts found are valid or not, which is a great starting point for launching attacks such as password spraying, which we will cover in-depth later in this module.

Identifying Potential Vulnerabilities

The local system account NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM is a built-in account in Windows operating systems. It has the highest level of access in the OS and is used to run most Windows services.
It is also very common for third-party services to run in the context of this account by default. 

A SYSTEM account on a domain-joined host will be able to enumerate Active Directory by impersonating the computer account, which is essentially just another kind of user account. Having SYSTEM-level access within a domain environment is nearly equivalent to having a domain user account.

we have a lot of ways to look for this inside obsidan on Windows Priv Esec workflows. 

By gaining SYSTEM-level access on a domain-joined host, you will be able to perform actions such as, but not limited to:

Enumerate the domain using built-in tools or offensive tools such as BloodHound and PowerView.
 * Perform Kerberoasting / ASREPRoasting attacks within the same domain.
* Run tools such as Inveigh to gather Net-NTLMv2 hashes or perform SMB relay attacks.
* Perform token impersonation to hijack a privileged domain user account.
* Carry out ACL attacks.
