Detailed User Enumeration
To mount a successful password spraying attack, we first need a list of valid domain users to attempt to authenticate with. There are several ways that we can gather a target list of valid users:

By leveraging an SMB NULL session to retrieve a complete list of domain users from the domain controller
Utilizing an LDAP anonymous bind to query LDAP anonymously and pull down the domain user list
Using a tool such as Kerbrute to validate users utilizing a word list from a source such as the statistically-likely-usernames GitHub repo, or gathered by using a tool such as linkedin2username to create a list of potentially valid users
Using a set of credentials from a Linux or Windows attack system either provided by our client or obtained through another means such as LLMNR/NBT-NS response poisoning using Responder or even a successful password spray using a smaller wordlist
No matter the method we choose, it is also vital for us to consider the domain password policy. If we have an SMB NULL session, LDAP anonymous bind, or a set of valid credentials, we can enumerate the password policy. Having this policy in hand is very useful because the minimum password length and whether or not password complexity is enabled can help us formulate the list of passwords we will try in our spray attempts. Knowing the account lockout threshold and bad password timer will tell us how many spray attempts we can do at a time without locking out any accounts and how many minutes we should wait between spray attempts.

Again, if we do not know the password policy, we can always ask our client, and, if they won't provide it, we can either try one very targeted password spraying attempt as a "hail mary" if all other options for a foothold have been exhausted. We could also try one spray every few hours in an attempt to not lock out any accounts. Regardless of the method we choose, and if we have the password policy or not, we must always keep a log of our activities, including, but not limited to:

The accounts targeted
Domain Controller used in the attack
Time of the spray
Date of the spray
Password(s) attempted
This will help us ensure that we do not duplicate efforts. If an account lockout occurs or our client notices suspicious logon attempts, we can supply them with our notes to crosscheck against their logging systems and ensure nothing nefarious was going on in the network.

SMB NULL Session to Pull User List
If you are on an internal machine but don’t have valid domain credentials, you can look for SMB NULL sessions or LDAP anonymous binds on Domain Controllers. Either of these will allow you to obtain an accurate list of all users within Active Directory and the password policy. If you already have credentials for a domain user or SYSTEM access on a Windows host, then you can easily query Active Directory for this information.

It’s possible to do this using the SYSTEM account because it can impersonate the computer. A computer object is treated as a domain user account (with some differences, such as authenticating across forest trusts). If you don’t have a valid domain account, and SMB NULL sessions and LDAP anonymous binds are not possible, you can create a user list using external resources such as email harvesting and LinkedIn. This user list will not be as complete, but it may be enough to provide you with access to Active Directory.

Some tools that can leverage SMB NULL sessions and LDAP anonymous binds include enum4linux, rpcclient, and CrackMapExec, among others. Regardless of the tool, we'll have to do a bit of filtering to clean up the output and obtain a list of only usernames, one on each line. We can do this with enum4linux with the -U flag.

Using enum4linux
